Suggestions for chapter 2 (#20)
codecurious-bln/elixir_snake: docs/tutorial/02-draw-a-snake.md

### 2. Draw a snake

> In our retro game, all objects and their movements are organized in big square "cells". The pallet is a single cell and the snake a line of these cells moving one cell a step. We'll, therefore, describe our playing field as a grid of square cells addressable like a coordinate system:

Author: I can't recall the rule exactly, but I think it should be either `We'll, therefore, ...` or `Therefore, we'll`

> In our retro game, all objects and their movements are organized in big square "cells". The pallet is a single cell and the snake a line of these cells moving one cell a step. We'll, therefore, describe our playing field as a grid of square cells addressable like a coordinate system:

Reviewer: We'd need a comma if we'd "therefore" as either an interrupter or conjunctive adverb. We aren't doing any of this and could in fact even drop the word from the sentence - that's why I interpret it as we're not needing a comma 🤓

```elixir
def init(arg, opts) do

>   {:ok, :ok}

Reviewer: I Scenic complaining when we're skipping that part? I didn't notice 🤔

Author: Yeah, at least I get an error screen instead of the black screen

Reviewer: Ok. Then we should stick with returning something 👍

That's a starting point!

> 

Reviewer: 👍

    viewport = opts[:viewport]

    IO.inspect(ViewPort.info(viewport), label: "viewport info")

    {:ok, :ok}
  end
end
```

> Running the game again, we see we have some information about the size of the viewport in pixels. We can use this information to compute the number of rows and columns in our grid. We'll define the default length of 32 pixels for the edge of one square and then compute how many we can fit onto the screen. As this information is necessary throughout the whole game, we store it in the `state` of the scene.

Reviewer: I think™ it was part of the feedback in my initial PR for this document that we'll do get rid of the compiler warning **before** continuing on the grid logic. What's your motivation to change it back?

Author: I found it confusing that we started to talk about the window size and calculating the number of tiles, then we change the focus to the warning and then again to the calculation

Reviewer: Yep, valid point 👍

```elixir
@tile_size 32

def init(arg, opts) do
  viewport = opts[:viewport]

  {:ok, %ViewPort.Status{size: {vp_width, vp_height}}} = ViewPort.info(viewport)

>   number_of_columns = div(vp_width, @tile_size)

Reviewer: What's the difference to using `trunc`? Just that it "includes" the computation? Makes sense I'd say 👍

Author: the result should be the same, but `div/2` is the native integer division function in elixir

Reviewer: Perfect 💚

  number_of_rows = div(vp_height, @tile_size)

  state = %{
    width: number_of_columns,
    height: number_of_rows
  }

  {:ok, :ok}
end
```

> Coach: Talk about assignments that use pattern matching

When running the game you may have noticed the compiler warning us:

    warning: variable "arg" is unused (if the variable is not meant to be used, prefix it with an underscore)

In our configuration, we are passing `nil` as the argument of the first parameter `arg` of the `init/2` function of our `Game` scene, which already indicates that we're not planning to provide any information meant for further usage here. So let's follow the compiler's suggestions and prefix the parameter with an underscore to indicate that we know about the parameter but don't need it:

```elixir
def init(_arg, opts) do
  viewport = opts[:viewport]

  {:ok, %ViewPort.Status{size: {vp_width, vp_height}}} = ViewPort.info(viewport)

  number_of_columns = div(vp_width, @tile_size)
  number_of_rows = div(vp_height, @tile_size)

  state = %{
    width: number_of_columns,
    height: number_of_rows
  }

>   {:ok, :ok}

Reviewer: Hm, just wondering: doesn't the compiler also complain if we don't use the `state` any further here?

On the other hand, it's sort of an intermediate step where we don't even encourage people to run it. So probably alright like this.

Author: > Hm, just wondering: doesn't the compiler also complain if we don't use the state any further here?

yes, it does

> On the other hand, it's sort of an intermediate step where we don't even encourage people to run it. So probably alright like this.

That was my thought too

@tile_size 32
```

Running the app, you won't see any change yet. We have to push our graph to the viewport when we initialize the scene. We will also return the initial state we just set up:

```elixir
def init(_arg, opts) do
  viewport = opts[:viewport]

  {:ok, %ViewPort.Status{size: {vp_width, vp_height}}} = ViewPort.info(viewport)

>   number_of_columns = div(vp_width, @tile_size)

Reviewer: 💚 great suggestion! Slipped my eyes we're still using `tiles` and a truncated variable name here before 🙈

To keep things organized, we'll implement our own `draw_object/2` helper function which will turn our abstract snake object into actual drawable objects for Scenic. The function takes two arguments: the graph and our snake object.

> For each square of the snake's body, we draw a tile on our grid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each square of the snake's body, we fill a cell on our grid.
```

Let's try to stick to one word for cell / tile if possible. I personally think that "cell" is a better fit and likely to be understood easier by more people.

```elixir
defp draw_object(graph, %{body: snake}) do

>   Enum.reduce(snake, graph, fn {x, y}, graph ->

Reviewer: 😹 thanx!

    draw_tile(graph, x, y, fill: :dark_slate_gray)
  end)
end
```

Then we'll add a separate function to draw a single tile. We can use the `rounded_rectangle/3` function from Scenic's `Primitives` module for that. To keep the snake's body distinguishable, we'll draw the rectangle with rounded corners. Black is the default fill color, but whatever is passed in via the `opts` argument will override that.

```elixir

> import Scenic.Primitives, only: [rounded_rectangle: 3]

Reviewer: Awesome 💚
